# Tables Guide

The Docs/Tables folder contains the following subfolders:
- Fragments: barebones contents of tables generated with your preferred software(s).
- Standalone: full tables (probably not generated by a script).
- Temp: auxiliary, temporary and old tables.


## Recommendations
Each table used in the paper or the slides should have a .tex file (saved in the Docs/Tables folder) with a preamble, title and notes.
- Other .tex files (e.g., sections.tex) can call a table .tex file and skip the preamble.
- This avoids the need to re-run the script generating the table if you just want to change the title, the label or the notes.
- This allows to generate a standalone PDF file for the table, which can be called by the slides in case the title and the notes of a table are needed.
- This allows to have *long* notes below a table for the paper and *short* notes for the slides, without the need to duplicate files. See the examples included in the repository template.

To facilitate referencing the tables, use the same filename as the label for the table.
- Example: filename 'extabfrag' and label '\label{tab:extabfrag}'.

Make sure the tables have a consistent format throughout the paper and slides.

If possible, use the same font for the tables as in the text.

If possible, for the tables in the slides:
- Adjust the font size for the slides.
- If you want to uncover a table in layers, save the different versions of the table. In Beamer, use the \only<slidenum> command to reveal each layer.

Run the doAll.sh file (or the relevant line for the tables) to generate the latest PDF versions for all the tables.
- This ensures that the latest versions of the tables are used in the slides (when they call the PDF versions of the tables).
- For that to work, all the tables .tex files need to be saved in the Docs/Tables folder.


## Notes
- The \fignote and \fignotes commands defined in Docs/Settings/macros.tex handle the notes below a table.



Considerations:
- Each table is composed of two files:
	- A fragment file containing the essence of the table (e.g., contents of entries, rules).
	- A main file that will have all the details of the table (e.g., title, label, notes) and that will call the fragment file.
- In this way, the details of the table can be updated without having to re-run the codes.
- Each main table file has a preamble so that it can generate a standalone PDF file for the table. Files (e.g., sections.tex, appendix.tex) calling the main table file, skip that preamble.

Recommendations:
- To facilitate referencing the tables, use the same file name as the label for the table. For example, filename 'extabpdf' and label '\label{tab:extabpdf}'.
- Make sure the tables have a consistent format throughout the paper and that the latest versions are used in the slides as in the paper.
- Run the XXXX main latex file XXXX to generate standalone PDF versions for all the tables.
- Folder contains table with notes. Generate the fragment files with your preferred software(s) and save them in Tables/Plain. In this way, you don't need to re-run the code if you just want to change the title, the label or the notes of the table.

Notes:
- The \tabnotes command handles the notes below a table.
- The \estauto command handles fragment table files generated by Stata.
- Both commands are defined in macros.tex.
- Standalone, toggle longnotes for paper vs slides
- Describe subfolders: Plain (fragments), Standalone (from scratch, manual)
